OWNERS.md, before:

# PavedRoad Maintainers

This page lists all active maintainers and their areas of expertise. This can be used for routing PRs, questions, etc. to the right place.

* See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for general contribution guidelines.
* See [GOVERNANCE.md](GOVERNANCE.md) for governance guidelines and maintainer responsibilities.

## Senior maintainers

Here's the current list of senior maintainers:

* Team Member1 <name@pavedroad.io> ([name](https://github.com/name))
  * Catch-all, architecture, strategy, build and packaging

## Maintainers

There are currently no maintainers. Maintainers will be added according to the [process for adding a maintainer](GOVERNANCE.md#becoming-a-maintainer) in the [governance](GOVERNANCE.md).

## Emeritus maintainers

There are currently no emeritus maintainers.  This list will be updated according to the [process for removing a maintainer](GOVERNANCE.md#removing-a-maintainer) in the [governance](GOVERNANCE.md).

## Friends of PavedRoad

This section lists people that are not currently maintainers but have demonstrated value to the community.
They typically help out with technical, code and design reviews and also with support and troubleshooting.
Feel free to loop them in as needed.

### Do Not Edit
This file is generated so do not edit it directly.
Template files for this documentation may be edited.

[Edit template files here.](https://github.com/pavedroad-io/kevlar-repo/blob/master/repo-templates/oss-default)
[See build instructions here.](https://github.com/pavedroad-io/kevlar-repo/blob/master/repo-templates/oss-default/README.md)

Commit message:

Cleaned up most of the README and other markdown files

OWNERS.md, after:

# PavedRoad Maintainers

This page lists all active maintainers and their areas of expertise. This can be used for routing PRs, questions, etc. to the right place.

* See [CONTRIBUTING.md](/CONTRIBUTING.md) for general contribution guidelines.
* See [GOVERNANCE.md](/GOVERNANCE.md) for governance guidelines and maintainer responsibilities.

## Senior maintainers

Here's the current list of senior maintainers:

* Team Member1 <name@pavedroad.io> ([name](https://github.com/name))
  * Catch-all, architecture, strategy, build and packaging

## Maintainers

There are currently no maintainers. Maintainers will be added according to the [process for adding a maintainer](/GOVERNANCE.md#becoming-a-maintainer) in the [governance](/GOVERNANCE.md).

## Emeritus maintainers

There are currently no emeritus maintainers.  This list will be updated according to the [process for removing a maintainer](/GOVERNANCE.md#removing-a-maintainer) in the [governance](/GOVERNANCE.md).

## Friends of PavedRoad

This section lists people that are not currently maintainers but have demonstrated value to the community.
They typically help out with technical, code and design reviews and also with support and troubleshooting.
Feel free to loop them in as needed.

### Do Not Edit
This file is generated so any edits made to it directly will be lost.
The template file for this document may be edited.

Edit the template file: [OWNERS.md](/repo-templates/oss-default/OWNERS.md)
How to generate this document: [Document Generation README](/assets/README.md)
