assets/README.md, before:

# Document Generation from Templates

Markdown documentation files provided by PavedRoad such as README.md files are generated from templates using jinja2.
The template files may be edited with any editor including the GitHub GUI editor available on repository web pages.

Once template files have been edited the target markdown files must be generated by running the _make_ command in the appropriate directory.
After the generated file is ready for prime time it should be pushed to a branch and a pull request made.

## Getting Started

If the template file and the target file already exist the process for updating a file is fairly simple.
Edit the template file and go to the directory *kevlar-repo/assets/content* and type _make_.
All target files that have had any dependencies modified will be rebuilt.

## Directory Layout

    |-- kevlar-repo
    |   |-- assets
    |   |   |-- content
    |   |   |   |-- assets
    |   |   |   |-- github
    |   |   |   |-- kevlar-repo
    |   |   |   `-- salt
    |   |   `-- images
    |   |-- repo-templates
    |   |   |-- assets
    |   |   |-- oss-default
    |   |   `-- salt
    |   `-- salt

Each set of generated markdown files in a target directory have an associated template directory where the source templates reside.
The source template file for each generated file has the same base name.
In addition a third directory is associated with each pair of template and target directories.
This third directory contains the Makefile used to generate this set of target markdown files.
Generally the last element of all of these directory names would be the same.
As an example here are the files associated with this README file:

    template: kevlar-repo/repo-templates/assets/README.md
    target:   kevlar-repo/assets/README.md
    makefile: kevlar-repo/assets/content/assets/Makefile

### The Target Directory

The target directory may reside anywhere on GitHub but target file generation is much simpler if it is in the same repo or the same organization.
Note that all three directories are in the same repo for the example of this README file.

### The Template Directory

The template directory generally resides in *kevlar-repo/repo-templates* and usually would have the same last element directory name.
However different target directories could share the same template directory so having the same name is not a requirement.
If possible it is good practice to give them the same name.

### The Makefile Directory

The makefile directory must reside in *kevlar-repo/assets/content* and usually would have the same last element directory name as the target and template directories.
Typing _make_ in this directory will build all of its target markdown files that are out of date.
Note that all three directories have the same last element name of *assets* in the example of this README file.

### The Content Directory

All of the makefile directories reside in *kevlar-repo/assets/content* and this directory has a top level makefile that can start makes in all of its sub directories.
Typing _make_ in this directory will thus build all of the target markdown files that are out of date in each target directory.

## More to Come

Two more files will be added to go into more detail. The first will be how to add a file to an existing target directory
The second will be how to set up a new target and template directory form scratch.

## Getting Help

What should users do and expect when they encounter bugs or get stuck using your project? Set expectations for support, link to the issue tracker and roadmap, if applicable.

Where should users go if they have a question? (Stack Overflow, Gitter, IRC, mailing list, etc.)

If desired, you may also provide links to core contributor email addresses.
## Contributing Guidelines

Include instructions for setting up the development environment, code standards, running tests, and submitting pull requests. Aim to be inclusive and welcoming. It may be useful to link to a seperate CONTRIBUTING.md file. See this example from the Hoodie project as an exemplar: https://github.com/hoodiehq/hoodie/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
## Code of Conduct

Open Source projects should follow a code of conduct. Provide a link to the Code of Conduct for your project. I recommend using the Contributor Covenant: http://contributor-covenant.org/
## License

pavedroad-io/kevlar-repo is licensed under the [Apache License 2.0][license]
[license]: /LICENSE

[link](/LICENSE)
### Do Not Edit
This file is generated so do not edit it directly.
Template files for this documentation may be edited.

[Edit the template file here.](/repo-templates/assets/README.md)
[See build instructions here.](/assets/README.md)

Commit message:

Added conduct, contrib, and support one liners and links

assets/README.md, after:

# Document Generation from Templates

Markdown documentation files provided by PavedRoad such as README.md files are generated from templates using jinja2.
The template files may be edited with any editor including the GitHub GUI editor available on repository web pages.

Once template files have been edited the target markdown files must be generated by running the _make_ command in the appropriate directory.
After the generated file is ready for prime time it should be pushed to a branch and a pull request made.

## Getting Started

If the template file and the target file already exist the process for updating a file is fairly simple.
Edit the template file and go to the directory *kevlar-repo/assets/content* and type _make_.
All target files that have had any dependencies modified will be rebuilt.

## Directory Layout

    |-- kevlar-repo
    |   |-- assets
    |   |   |-- content
    |   |   |   |-- assets
    |   |   |   |-- github
    |   |   |   |-- kevlar-repo
    |   |   |   `-- salt
    |   |   `-- images
    |   |-- repo-templates
    |   |   |-- assets
    |   |   |-- oss-default
    |   |   `-- salt
    |   `-- salt

Each set of generated markdown files in a target directory have an associated template directory where the source templates reside.
The source template file for each generated file has the same base name.
In addition a third directory is associated with each pair of template and target directories.
This third directory contains the Makefile used to generate this set of target markdown files.
Generally the last element of all of these directory names would be the same.
As an example here are the files associated with this README file:

    template: kevlar-repo/repo-templates/assets/README.md
    target:   kevlar-repo/assets/README.md
    makefile: kevlar-repo/assets/content/assets/Makefile

### The Target Directory

The target directory may reside anywhere on GitHub but target file generation is much simpler if it is in the same repo or the same organization.
Note that all three directories are in the same repo for the example of this README file.

### The Template Directory

The template directory generally resides in *kevlar-repo/repo-templates* and usually would have the same last element directory name.
However different target directories could share the same template directory so having the same name is not a requirement.
If possible it is good practice to give them the same name.

### The Makefile Directory

The makefile directory must reside in *kevlar-repo/assets/content* and usually would have the same last element directory name as the target and template directories.
Typing _make_ in this directory will build all of its target markdown files that are out of date.
Note that all three directories have the same last element name of *assets* in the example of this README file.

### The Content Directory

All of the makefile directories reside in *kevlar-repo/assets/content* and this directory has a top level makefile that can start makes in all of its sub directories.
Typing _make_ in this directory will thus build all of the target markdown files that are out of date in each target directory.

## More to Come

Two more files will be added to go into more detail. The first will be how to add a file to an existing target directory
The second will be how to set up a new target and template directory form scratch.

## Getting Help

Support options for pavedroad-io/kevlar-repo [can be found here](/SUPPORT.md)
## Contributing

Contributing guidelines for pavedroad-io/kevlar-repo [can be found here](/CONTRIBUTING.md)
## Code of Conduct

This project from pavedroad-io follows the [CNCF Code of Conduct](/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
## License

pavedroad-io/kevlar-repo is licensed under the [Apache License 2.0](/LICENSE)
### Do Not Edit
This file is generated so do not edit it directly.
Template files for this documentation may be edited.

[Edit the template file here.](/repo-templates/assets/README.md)
[See build instructions here.](/assets/README.md)
