salt/README.md, before:

# About the PavedRoad Deveopment Kit

Provide a brief (1 paragraph or less), meaningful description of the project and what it does. If the project has a UI, include a screenshot as well.

If more comprehensive documentation exists, link to it here.

## Features

Describe the core features of the project (what does it do?) in the form of a bulleted list:

- Feature #1
- Feature #2
- Feature #3

## Getting Started

Provide installation instructions, general usage guidance, API examples, and build and deployment information. Assume as little prior knowledge as possible, describing everything in clear and coherent steps. Avoid words such as "just" and "simple," which can be off putting to users who do not understand the instructions.

### Installation/Dependencies

How does a user get up and running with your project? What dependencies does the project have? Aim to describe these in clear and simple steps. Provide external links

### Usage

Provide clear examples of how the project may be used. For large projects with external documentation, provide a few examples and link to the full docs here.

### Build/Deployment

If the user will be building or deploying the project, add any useful guidance.

### Community Meeting
This project meets on a regular basis: [Community Meeting](/MEETING).
### Getting Help
For contact information or to report a bug see [Support](/SUPPORT.md).
### How to Contribute
For guidelines on contributions see [Contributing](/CONTRIBUTING.md).
### CNCF Code of Conduct
This project follows this [CNCF Code of Conduct](/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
### License
pavedroad-io/kevlar-repo is licensed under the following [License](/LICENSE).
### Do Not Edit
This file is generated so any edits made to it directly will be lost.
The template file for this document may be edited.

Edit the template file: [README.md](/repo-templates/salt/README.md)
How to generate this document: [Document Generation README](/assets/README.md)

Commit message:

Add TBD to links not yet finalized, rename md files in content

salt/README.md, after:

# About the PavedRoad Deveopment Kit

Provide a brief (1 paragraph or less), meaningful description of the project and what it does. If the project has a UI, include a screenshot as well.

If more comprehensive documentation exists, link to it here.

## Features

Describe the core features of the project (what does it do?) in the form of a bulleted list:

- Feature #1
- Feature #2
- Feature #3

## Getting Started

Provide installation instructions, general usage guidance, API examples, and build and deployment information. Assume as little prior knowledge as possible, describing everything in clear and coherent steps. Avoid words such as "just" and "simple," which can be off putting to users who do not understand the instructions.

### Installation/Dependencies

How does a user get up and running with your project? What dependencies does the project have? Aim to describe these in clear and simple steps. Provide external links

### Usage

Provide clear examples of how the project may be used. For large projects with external documentation, provide a few examples and link to the full docs here.

### Build/Deployment

If the user will be building or deploying the project, add any useful guidance.

## Links to More Information

### Community Meeting
This project meets on a regular basis: [TBD Community Meeting](https://zoom.us/j/7886774843).
### Getting Help
For contact information or to report a bug see [Support](/SUPPORT.md).
### How to Contribute
For guidelines on contributions see [Contributing](/CONTRIBUTING.md).
### Code of Conduct
This project follows this [Code of Conduct](/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
### License
This project is licensed under the following [License](/LICENSE).
### Do Not Edit
This file is generated so any edits made to it directly will be lost.
The template for this file may be edited:
[README.md](/repo-templates/salt/README.md).

For complete instructions on editing templates and processing them see:
[Document Generation](/assets/README.md).
